Add Troubleshooting section (#1098)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/kubernetes-ingress-controller/troubleshooting/kubernetes-api-server.md

---
title: Debugging Kubernetes API Server connectivity
short_title: Kubernetes API Server

description: |
  How do I customize {{ site.kic_product_name }}'s connection to the Kubernetes API Server?

content_type: reference
layout: reference

breadcrumbs:
  - /kubernetes-ingress-controller/
  - index: kubernetes-ingress-controller
    section: Troubleshooting

products:
  - kic

works_on:
  - on-prem
  - konnect

---

> ## Authentication to the Kubernetes API Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Kubernetes API Server authentication
```

A number of components are involved in the authentication process and the first step is to narrow down the source of the problem, namely whether it is a problem with service authentication or with the kubeconfig file.  Both authentications must work:

{% mermaid %}
graph RL
    ingress["ingress controller"]
    apiserver["apiserver"]

    ingress -- "service authentication" --> apiserver
{% endmermaid %}

## Service authentication

> The Ingress controller needs information from API server to configure Kong.  Therefore, authentication is required, which can be achieved in two different ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ingress controller needs information from the API server to configure {{site.base_gateway}}. Therefore, authentication is required, which can be achieved in two different ways:
```

> 1. **Service Account**: This is recommended because nothing has to be configured.  The Ingress controller will use information provided by the system to communicate with the API server.  See 'Service Account' section for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Service Account**: This is recommended because nothing has to be configured.  The Ingress controller will use information provided by the system to communicate with the API server. See the [Service Account](#service-account) section for details.
```

> 1. **Kubeconfig file**: In some Kubernetes environments service accounts are not available.  In this case, a manual configuration is required.  The Ingress controller binary can be started with the `--kubeconfig` flag.  The value of the flag is a path to a file specifying how to connect to the API server. Using the `--kubeconfig` does not require the flag `--apiserver-host`.  The format of the file is identical to `~/.kube/config` which is used by `kubectl` to connect to the API server.  See 'kubeconfig' section for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Kubeconfig file**: In some Kubernetes environments, service accounts aren't available. In this case, a manual configuration is required.  You can start the Ingress controller binary with the `--kubeconfig` flag.  The value of the flag is a path to a file specifying how to connect to the API server. Using the `--kubeconfig` doesn't require the flag `--apiserver-host`.  The format of the file is identical to `~/.kube/config` which is used by `kubectl` to connect to the API server.  See ['kubeconfig' section](#kubeconfig) for details.
```

## Discovering the API server

> Using this flag `--apiserver-host=http://localhost:8080`, it is possible to specify an unsecured API server or reach a remote Kubernetes cluster using [kubectl proxy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/access-cluster-api/#using-kubectl-proxy).  Please do not use this approach in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this flag `--apiserver-host=http://localhost:8080`, you can specify an unsecured API server or reach a remote Kubernetes cluster using [kubectl proxy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/access-cluster-api/#using-kubectl-proxy). **Do not** use this approach in production.
```

{% mermaid %}
flowchart LR
    subgraph Kubernetes
        k8s_apiserver["apiserver"]
        k8s_ingress["ingress controller"]

        k8s_apiserver -- "apiserver proxy" --> k8s_ingress
        k8s_ingress -- "service account / kubeconfig" --> k8s_apiserver
    end

    subgraph Workstation
        ws_ingress["ingress controller"]
    end

    ws_ingress -- "kubeconfig" --> k8s_apiserver
{% endmermaid %}

## Service Account

> If using a service account to connect to the API server, Dashboard expects the file `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token` to be present. It provides a secret token that is required to authenticate with the API server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using a service account to connect to the API server, Dashboard expects the file `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token` to be present. It provides a secret token that is required to authenticate with the API server.
```

# connect using tokens
$ TOKEN_VALUE=$(kubectl exec test-701078429-s5kca -- cat /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token)
$ echo $TOKEN_VALUE
eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3Mi....9A
$ kubectl exec test-701078429-s5kca -- curl --cacert /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt -H  "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN_VALUE" https://10.0.0.1
{
  "paths": [
    "/api",
    "/api/v1",
    "/apis",
    "/apis/apps",
    "/apis/apps/v1alpha1",
    "/apis/authentication.k8s.io",
    "/apis/authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1",
    "/apis/authorization.k8s.io",
    "/apis/authorization.k8s.io/v1beta1",
    "/apis/autoscaling",
    "/apis/autoscaling/v1",
    "/apis/batch",
    "/apis/batch/v1",
    "/apis/batch/v2alpha1",
    "/apis/certificates.k8s.io",
    "/apis/certificates.k8s.io/v1alpha1",
    "/apis/extensions",
    "/apis/extensions/v1beta1",
    "/apis/policy",
    "/apis/policy/v1alpha1",
    "/apis/rbac.authorization.k8s.io",
    "/apis/rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1alpha1",
    "/apis/storage.k8s.io",
    "/apis/storage.k8s.io/v1beta1",
    "/healthz",
    "/healthz/ping",
    "/logs",
    "/metrics",
    "/swaggerapi/",
    "/ui/",
    "/version"
  ]
}
```

> If it is not working, there are two possible reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it isn't working, there are two possible reasons:
```

1. The contents of the tokens are invalid.
    Find the secret name:

    ```bash
    kubectl get secrets --field-selector=type=kubernetes.io/service-account-token
    ```

    Delete the secret:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete secret {SECRET_NAME}
    ```

    It will automatically be recreated.

1. You have a non-standard Kubernetes installation and the file containing the token may not be present.

> The API server will mount a volume containing this file, but only if the API server is configured to use the ServiceAccount admission controller.  If you experience this error, verify that your API server is using the ServiceAccount admission controller.  If you are configuring the API server by hand, you can set this with the `--admission-control` parameter. Please note that you should use other admission controllers as well. Before configuring this option, please read about admission controllers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API server will mount a volume containing this file, but only if the API server is configured to use the ServiceAccount admission controller. If you experience this error, verify that your API server is using the ServiceAccount admission controller. If you are configuring the API server by hand, you can set this with the `--admission-control` parameter. You should use other admission controllers as well. Before configuring this option, read about admission controllers.
```

> More information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the following:
```
